---
layout: refdoc
title: Celerio Guide - Bootstrap a sample project with Celerio
---
[ << prev ](installation.html) [ index ](index.html) [ next >> ](bootstrap-real.html)

# 3. Bootstrap a sample project with Celerio

## Run the bootstrap wizard

Invoke the `bootstrap` goal of the `bootstrap-maven-plugin`.
From a command line executes (it may take some time to download all the dependencies the first time you use it):

	mvn com.jaxio.celerio:bootstrap-maven-plugin:4.0.11:bootstrap

> **Note**
>
> Please note that this command may take a while to complete the first time as Maven needs to download all
> the necessary plugins and dependencies to build and run the project.

Follow the wizard, once it completes it prints some information on the console (see below), for the moment
do not run any command:

    FINAL STEPS:

    1/ Optional: you can edit the generated pom.xml file to use your own database

    2/ Execute the following commands:

    cd jsf2_spring_conversation_bank
    mvn -Pdb,metadata,gen jetty:run

    3/ Then open http://localhost:8080/

## Step back, take a look at the few files generated by the wizard

Before running the commands above, take a moment to discover the files that have been created by the wizard
In general it includes:

* `pom.xml` : A complete Maven POM file.
* `src/main/sql/h2/01-create.sql` : an SQL script to create, init and drop a local H2 database. This is an example database that Celerio is going to reverse.
* `src/main/config/celerio-maven-plugin/celerio-maven-plugin.xml` : A Celerio's configuration file.
* `src/main/config/celerio-maven-plugin/celerio-template-packs.xml` : Another Celerio's configuration file.

These files above are the seeds to generate the project...

## Reverse, generate and run the sample generated project

You are now ready to:

* create the sample database out of the sample SQL script provided by the bootstrap,
* reverse this sample database schema and generate the corresponding source code and configuration files,
* build the generated project,
* and run the resulting web application (assuming you selected a web app...)

To do so, from the same console as above, execute the Maven command as suggested by the wizard, for example:

    cd jsf2_spring_conversation_bank
    mvn -Pdb,metadata,gen jetty:run

> **Note**
>
> Please note that this command may take a while to complete the first time as Maven needs to download all
> the necessary plugins and dependencies to build and run the project.

Now you can try out your new web application. Open [http://localhost:8080/](http://localhost:8080/) in your browser.
Can you log in as admin/admin? If yes, congratulations!, all went well...

## Get familiarized with the various maven profiles

The `-P` option stands for *profile*. In the above command, we activate:

* `db` profile to create a new database,
* `metadata` profile to reverse the database schema,
* `gen` profile to generate the corresponding source code.

All these profiles are declared in the main `pom.xml` file. The `jetty:run` starts an embedded web server.
